# From Post to Insight:
## Leveraging Natural Language Processing to Analyse Social Inequality Discourse on Telegram


This master's thesis analyses the representation of social inequality on the social media platform Telegram, based on the concepts of Steffen Mau et al., who divide inequalities into four dimensions. The study examines how these dimensions are represented in Telegram communications and whether the theoretically independent arenas merge in practice. Given increasing social polarisation, Telegram serves as a field of research that sheds light on these dynamics. A specialised crawler collected publicly accessible messages from various channels and groups. The analysis was conducted using a zero-shot NLI classifier.
The results indicate that discourse on Telegram is mainly dominated by socio-economic and national identity issues. It becomes apparent that the inequality arenas often merge in practice and form a complex syndrome that cannot be clearly separated. This partly contradicts the theoretical assumptions of Mau et al. about separate arenas of inequality. These findings expand the understanding of social inequality in digital discourses and illustrate the limitations of existing theoretical models. They emphasise the need to consider the interactions of different dimensions of inequality in a more nuanced way and recommend that future research be expanded to include other languages, cultural, and ideological contexts to place the results on a broader basis. For example, a more left-dominated social media platform could be analysed compared to the results on Telegram.
The study has limitations, including the focus on predominantly English-language posts and possible biases due to the classifier. The cultural diversity of Telegram users could also influence the interpretation. This work offers essential insights into the mechanisms of digitally mediated social inequality and is a valuable resource for those tackling inequalities and promoting justice.
